the hand signal program and the
competitive part they really go hand in
hand now I'll just kind of go through
what we what we do with them
once they come back into the hand signal
program gundog what I just explained
enhancing those two total different
worlds gundog what we're doing is we're
exposing their strengths and their
weaknesses and we're training to make
their weaknesses better and then we are
we're actually using their strengths you
know to get through some of the weak
parts you know and hopefully that
strength is gonna be a stronger
treatment desire we use that they could
see the birds fall out of the sky and
they want you know they're like hey let
me go get that bird I saw fall well hand
signals is totally different what we're
doing there is we're presetting they're
not getting to see a whole lot of
they're not getting see birds fall out
of the sky we're teaching them how to
run and just run lines to pilots that
are already preset just called forced to
the pile that's the first stage we go
from walking fetch into the force to the
pile and that's where we're actually
teaching that dog how'd it go when he
feels the collar once we get that down
we start remote casting we teach the dog
packs and overs we're gonna piece that
dog gotta sit on the whistle we're
teaching them how to run wise so we're
throwing all this all this at this dog
and it's a total different deal than
what we threw a team is agenda
the gun dog he wanted that you saw go
fall with this deal
we're telling that dog hey you didn't
see it all but us out there and go out
there and you just take off called I
said so when really no other reason side
Zack so we don't want to see the dog
hunt we wanna we just wanna see that dog
learn the straightest line he can run we
have to develop a relationship and in
the hand Sigma program because we got to
have that dog's trust you know and not
only we're not just making that dog go
out there but I want the dog to think
that hey he's lining me up on something
and I'm gonna I'm gonna trust him enough
and and believe him that there is
something out here and when he sends me
and that bird back I'm gonna go that's
what we're trying to get across that's
what we're trying to teach these dogs
and the hand signal program you know the
hey it's my bird this was this one's my
bird right here you listen to me and
I'll tell you where it's at and normally
that's another four month of deal to
actually finish dog out and once again
were throwing a lot at the dog and you
know we're teasing we start with the
base based remote cast which is your
backs and your overs then we're going to
be cheat off the bang we're going to
teach them how to cut corners and how to
not cheat and how to just go right into
the water turn around come right back to
where they came we've got to start the
intro home season just bank-to-bank
water bones channel bonds you gotta
teach don't land too I know there's this
multiple drills that we run to teach
angles by the time it's all said known
it takes it takes four months to get it
all to finish level where he can
actually run a big line you know a two
to three hundred yard line angling
across pond banks points land hills
rolling hills off side of the pasture
it's just it's something that's
progressive you got to stick with it
they're athletes I mean it's just like a
football player basketball player
baseball you got to practice practice
makes perfect and the hand signals is
that one thing that if once it's taught
the only way that dog can continue to
get better is just by just by doing it
and some dogs it takes years but once
you once you got it you know it's a it's
an amazing Bank every duck so whistle
blowing a cast
you don't have to run yourself a death
to try to get that bird back to you so
they are nice normally once you hunt
with a hand single dog there's no going
back
I mean that's just this is what you got
to have from you know that does go hand
in hand with the competition but by that
I mean hunt test two of the main menus
is is you Casey and a Casey you Casey's
a great good organizations also known as
HRC they stayed really close to the duck
hunting scenarios